Abby's parents could be generously described as 'wanting the best for their daughter'. They planned her life for her, doing everything in their power to mould her into their perfect little angel. 

However, Abby had no desire to be an angel. She gathered dark clothes and spiky bracelets to wear when her parents weren't around, but this was hardly a rebellion. Abby wanted the freedom to express herself in the way that her best friend Cassandra had. Ironically, Abby would only find the way after Cassandra was hospitalized with a mysterious illness.

Walking home from the hospital on a rainy day, Abby dove into the nearest building for shelter. It turned out to be a vampire coven, run by the friendly coven master Damnarus. Abby was immediately enraptured with vampire culture and history, and she made it a routine to return to the coven whenever she could.

Of course, her parents would never understand something as dark and sinister as a vampire coven, so Abby became very skilled at lying to them. However, after a few years of her routine, Abby's parents learned the truth, and she used her newfound manipulation skills on coven master Damnarus instead. She convinced him that her parents had agreed to let her become a vampire, and he performed the ritual.

Abby returned home as a vampire, eager to rub her new victory in her parents' faces. Vampirism had changed everything from her hair to her teeth. She'd even changed her name, from Abby at the start of the alphabet to Zywen at the end, out of pure spite.

Years later, Zywen and Cassandra (now Escarlata) live as roommates in New Granwall City. After a brutal battle between Escarlata and villainous former hero La Nocturna, Zywen decided to use her lying skills for someone else's sake. Meeting La Nocturna face-to-face and having her drop her guard, Zywen stole the Shadow Veil, the source of La Nocturna's power. Soon after, she took over La Nocturna's identity and became a New Granwall Guardian herself, with the public having no idea why La Nocturna suddenly seemed to turn over a new leaf...